Docs: Create procedure for Deploying on OpenShift using Docker build strategy (#45918)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/deploying-to-openshift-docker-howto.adoc

////
This guide is maintained in the main Quarkus repository
and pull requests should be submitted there:
https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/tree/main/docs/src/main/asciidoc
////
[id="deploying-to-openshift-docker-howto"]
= Deploy {project-name} Java applications to {openshift} by using a Docker build strategy
include::_attributes.adoc[]
:diataxis-type: howto
:categories: cloud, native
:summary: This guide describes how to build and deploy a Quarkus application on {openshift} by using the Docker build strategy.
:topics: devops,kubernetes,openshift,cloud,deployment
:extensions: io.quarkus:quarkus-openshift

> As an application developer, you can deploy your applications to {openshift} by using the Docker build strategy as a deployment option.

Author: @iocanel, I have completed all required updates from SME and peer reviews. Can you please advise if this is ready to merge?

////
This guide is maintained in the main Quarkus repository
and pull requests should be submitted there:
https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/tree/main/docs/src/main/asciidoc
////
[id="deploying-to-openshift-docker-howto"]
= Deploy {project-name} Java applications to {openshift} by using a Docker build strategy
include::_attributes.adoc[]
:diataxis-type: howto
:categories: cloud, native
:summary: This guide describes how to build and deploy a Quarkus application on {openshift} by using the Docker build strategy.
:topics: devops,kubernetes,openshift,cloud,deployment
:extensions: io.quarkus:quarkus-openshift

As an application developer, you can deploy your applications to {openshift} by using the Docker build strategy as a deployment option.
This functionality is provided by the `quarkus-openshift` extension.

> The container gets built inside the {openshift} cluster and is provided as an image stream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {openshift} cluster builds the container and provides it as an image stream.
```

Your Quarkus project includes pregenerated Dockerfiles with instructions.

> When you want to use a custom Dockerfile, you must add the file in the `src/main/docker` directory or anywhere inside the module. Additionally, you must set the path to your Dockerfile by using the `quarkus.openshift.jvm-dockerfile` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to use a custom Dockerfile, add the file to the `src/main/docker` directory or any location inside the module. Additionally, set the path to your Dockerfile by using the `quarkus.openshift.jvm-dockerfile` property.
```

== Prerequisites

* You have OpenJDK {JDK-ver-all} installed.
* You have set the `JAVA_HOME` environment variable to the location of the Java SDK.
* You have Apache Maven {maven-version} installed.
* You have a Quarkus project that includes the `quarkus-openshift` extension.

> * You have access to a {openshift} cluster and the latest compatible version of the `oc` tool installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have access to a {openshift} cluster and the latest compatible version of the `oc` CLI tool installed.
```

* You are working in the correct OpenShift project namespace.

== Procedure

. Set the Docker build strategy in your `application.properties` configuration file:
+
[source, properties]
----
quarkus.openshift.build-strategy=docker
----

> . Optional: Set the following properties in the `application.properties` file, as required by your environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Optional: Set the following properties in the `application.properties` file based on your environment:
```

> .. If you are using an untrusted certificate, configure the `KubernetesClient`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** If you are using an untrusted certificate, enable certificate trust for the `KubernetesClient`:
```

+
[source,properties]
----
quarkus.kubernetes-client.trust-certs=true
----

> .. Expose the service to create an {openshift} route:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** To expose the service and create an {openshift} route, set the following property:
```

+
[source,properties]
----
quarkus.openshift.route.expose=true
----

> .. Set the path to your custom Dockerfile:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** To use a custom Dockerfile instead of the pregenerated Dockerfiles, set the path to your Dockerfile:
```

+
[source,properties,subs="attributes+,+quotes"]
----

> quarkus.openshift.jvm-dockerfile=<path_to_your_dockerfile>
> ----
> The following example shows the path to the `Dockerfile.custom-jvm`:
> +
> [source,properties]
> ----
> quarkus.openshift.jvm-dockerfile=src/main/resources/Dockerfile.custom-jvm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
quarkus.openshift.jvm-dockerfile=<path_to_your_dockerfile>
----
+
.Example path to the `Dockerfile.custom-jvm`
[source,properties]
----
quarkus.openshift.jvm-dockerfile=src/main/resources/Dockerfile.custom-jvm
```
Or maybe use: 
```
For example, to specify a custom Dockerfile named `Dockerfile.custom-jvm`:
```
They key thing is to use the `+` so the example indent and aligns with the bullet point.

----

. Package and deploy your application to the current OpenShift project:
+
[source,shell,subs="attributes+,+quotes"]
----
./mvnw clean package -Dquarkus.openshift.deploy=true
----

== Verification

> The verification steps and related terminal outputs are demonstrated on the `openshift-helloworld` example application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following verification steps use the `openshift-helloworld` example application.
```
Where does this example live? I don't see it in the https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus-quickstarts...

Author: Updated per your suggestion and the example referenced relate to the sentences that follow in the Verfication section.

. Display the list of pods associated with your current OpenShift project:
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes",options="nowrap"]
----
oc get pods
----
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes",options="nowrap"]
----
NAME                            READY   STATUS      RESTARTS   AGE
openshift-helloworld-1-build    0/1     Completed   0          11m
openshift-helloworld-1-deploy   0/1     Completed   0          10m
openshift-helloworld-1-gzzrx    1/1     Running     0          10m
----

> . To retrieve the log output for your application's pod, use the `oc logs -f` command with the `<pod_name>` value of the pod you are interested in.
> In this example, we use the `openshift-helloworld-1-gzzrx` pod name that corresponds with the latest pod prefixed with the name of your application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To get the log output for your application's pod, use the `oc logs -f` command with its name. For example:
```

+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes",options="nowrap"]
----
oc logs -f _openshift-helloworld-1-gzzrx_
----
+

> [source,shell,subs=attributes+]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example output
[source,shell,subs=attributes+]
```

Reviewer: I'm unsure whether we want to label outputs, but if we do, we should aim to apply it consistently across all upstream-downstream documentation. Something to think about for the future.

Author: Good point and +1. I think it looks better to have the label, but for consistency reasons, I might leave this as it is for now and look to deciding whether or not to apply it in the future across the other guides.

----
Starting the Java application using /opt/jboss/container/java/run/run-java.sh ...
INFO exec -a "java" java -Dquarkus.http.host=0.0.0.0 -Djava.util.logging.manager=org.jboss.logmanager.LogManager -XX:MaxRAMPercentage=50.0 -XX:+UseParallelGC -XX:MinHeapFreeRatio=10 -XX:MaxHeapFreeRatio=20 -XX:GCTimeRatio=4 -XX:AdaptiveSizePolicyWeight=90 -XX:+ExitOnOutOfMemoryError -cp "." -jar /deployments/quarkus-run.jar
__  ____  __  _____   ___  __ ____  ______
--/ __ \/ / / / _ | / _ \/ //_/ / / / __/
-/ /_/ / /_/ / __ |/ , _/ ,< / /_/ /\ \
--\___\_\____/_/ |_/_/|_/_/|_|\____/___/
2024-09-17 10:23:25,254 INFO  [io.quarkus] (main) getting-started 1.0.0-SNAPSHOT on JVM (powered by Quarkus {QuarkusCore}) started in 0.653s. Listening on: http://0.0.0.0:8080
2024-09-17 10:23:25,281 INFO  [io.quarkus] (main) Profile prod activated.
2024-09-17 10:23:25,281 INFO  [io.quarkus] (main) Installed features: [cdi, kubernetes, rest, smallrye-context-propagation, vertx]
----

> . Retrieve a list of services:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. To get a list of services:
```

+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes",options="nowrap"]
----
oc get svc
----
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes",options="nowrap"]
----
NAME                   TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)                               AGE
openshift-helloworld   ClusterIP   172.30.64.57     <none>        80/TCP                                14m
----

> . Get a URL to test your application.
> +
> [NOTE]
> ====
> To create an {openshift} route, ensure you have specified `quarkus.openshift.route.expose=true` in the `application.properties` file.
> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. If you exposed an {openshift} route by setting the `quarkus.openshift.route.expose=true` property before building the application, you can get a URL to test it:
```

+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes",options="nowrap"]
----
oc get routes
----
+
[source,shell,subs="+quotes",options="nowrap"]
----
NAME                   HOST/PORT                                                                   PATH   SERVICES               PORT   TERMINATION   WILDCARD
openshift-helloworld   openshift-helloworld-username-dev.apps.sandbox-m2.ll9k.p1.openshiftapps.com          openshift-helloworld   http                 None
----
+
[NOTE]
====

> Be aware that the route is now listening on port 80 and no longer at port 8080.

Reviewer: I'd double-check with the SME correctness of  the current statement. Is the route is listening on port 80 _in addition to_ port 8080? If so, maybe:
```suggestion
Be aware that the route is now listening on port 80.
```

Author: @iocanel, perhaps you could advise here?
